The characteristics generally used to distinguish one color from another are brightness, hue, and saturation. As indicated earlier in this section, brightness embodies the achromatic notion of intensity. Hue is an attribute associated with the dominant wavelength in a mixture of light waves. Hue represents dominant color as perceived by an observer. Thus, when we call an object red, orange, or yellow, we are referring to its hue. Saturation refers to the relative purity or the amount of white light mixed with a hue. The pure spectrum colors are fully saturated. Colors such as pink (red and white) and lavender (violet and white) are less saturated, with the degree of saturation being inversely proportional to the amount of white light added.
___

Chromatic light spans the electromagnetic spectrum from approximately 400 to 700 nm. Three basic quantities used to describe the quality of a chromatic light source are: radiance, luminance, and brightness. Radiance is the total amount of energy that flows from the light source, and it is usually measured in watts (W).
Luminance, measured in lumens (lm), is a measure of the amount of energy that an observer perceives from a light source. For example, light emitted from a source operating in the far infrared region of the spectrum could have significant energy (radiance), but an observer would hardly perceive it; its luminance would be almost zero. Finally, brightness is a subjective descriptor that is practically impossible to measure. It embodies the achromatic notion of intensity, and is one of the key fac- tors in describing color sensation.

___
